README.md, before:

# Video Frame Editor with Blur Effects

A web-based video editor that allows you to apply blur effects to specific regions of video frames by drawing rectangles on a timeline interface.

![Video Editor Interface](Screenshot%202025-08-19%20091344.png)

## Features

- **Video Frame Extraction**: Automatically extract frames from video files
- **Interactive Rectangle Drawing**: Draw rectangles on video frames to mark blur regions
- **Timeline Navigation**: Navigate through video frames with thumbnail timeline
- **Rectangle Management**: Create, move, resize, and delete blur rectangles
- **Property Panel**: View detailed properties of selected rectangles
- **Blur Effect Options**: Multiple blur intensity levels (Light to Extreme)
- **Video Export**: Export processed video with blur effects applied
- **Hardware Acceleration**: Automatic detection and selection of GPU encoders (NVIDIA NVENC, Intel QuickSync, AMD AMF)
- **Preview Generation**: Generate preview clips to test effects
- **Auto-save**: Automatic saving of rectangle data
- **Keyboard Shortcuts**: Quick navigation and debugging tools

## Prerequisites

Before running the application, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Python 3.7+**
- **FFmpeg** (for video processing)
- **Required Python packages** (see Installation section)

## Installation

1. **Clone or download** this repository to your local machine

2. **Install Python dependencies**:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Install FFmpeg**:
   - **Windows**: Download from [https://ffmpeg.org/download.html](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html)
   - **macOS**: `brew install ffmpeg`
   - **Linux**: `sudo apt install ffmpeg` (Ubuntu/Debian) or equivalent

4. **Create required directories** (will be created automatically on first run):
   - `data/` - for uploaded video files
   - `frames/` - for extracted frame images
   - `exports/` - for exported videos and saved rectangle data

## Usage

### Starting the Application

1. **Run the Flask application**:
   ```bash
   python app.py
   ```

2. **Open your web browser** and navigate to:
   ```
   http://localhost:5000
   ```

3. **Hardware encoder detection**: On page load, the application will:
   - Check FFmpeg installation and version
   - Scan for available hardware encoders
   - Auto-select the best codec (NVIDIA NVENC H.264 preferred)
   - Display status message with detected hardware encoders

### Loading a Video

1. **Place your video file** in the `data/` folder
   - Supported formats: `.mp4`, `.avi`, `.mov`, `.mkv`

2. **Select the video** from the dropdown menu

3. **Click "Load Video"** to extract frames and create the timeline

### Drawing Blur Rectangles

1. **Click and drag** on the video frame to draw a rectangle
2. **The rectangle ID** will appear in the top-left corner
3. **Selected rectangles** show resize handles and highlight in the property panel

### Rectangle Management

#### Selecting Rectangles
- **Click** on any rectangle to select it
- **Selected rectangles** show:
  - Resize handles on corners and edges
  - Highlighted border
  - Properties displayed in the right panel

#### Moving Rectangles
- **Click and drag** the rectangle body to move it
- Position updates automatically in the property panel

#### Resizing Rectangles
- **Click and drag** the resize handles to change dimensions
- Size updates automatically in the property panel

#### Deleting Rectangles
- **Click the × button** on a rectangle to delete it
- **Shift+Click** on a rectangle for quick deletion
- Deleted rectangles can be restored using the ↺ button

### Rectangle Inheritance Between Frames

The video editor uses an intelligent inheritance system to manage rectangles across frames:

#### How Inheritance Works
1. **Rectangle Persistence**: When you draw a rectangle on a frame, it automatically appears on all subsequent frames
2. **Keyframe System**: Each frame where you make changes (add, move, resize, or delete rectangles) becomes a "keyframe"
3. **Automatic Propagation**: Changes made on a keyframe affect all frames until the next keyframe

#### Rectangle States and Visual Indicators
Rectangles are displayed with different colors and styles to indicate their state:

- **🔴 Red Border (Solid)**: New rectangles created on the current frame
- **🔵 Blue Border (Dashed)**: Inherited rectangles from previous keyframes (unchanged)
- **🟢 Green Border**: Rectangles that were inherited and then modified on this frame
- **🟣 Purple Border**: Rectangles that were moved from their inherited position
- **🟠 Orange Border**: Rectangles that were resized from their inherited dimensions
- **⚪ Gray Border (Dashed)**: Deleted rectangles (can be restored)

#### Working with Inheritance
1. **Creating Rectangles**: Draw on any frame - the rectangle appears on all subsequent frames
2. **Modifying Inherited Rectangles**: 
   - Move or resize an inherited rectangle to create a new keyframe
   - The change affects all subsequent frames until the next keyframe
3. **Deleting Rectangles**: 
   - Delete a rectangle to remove it from the current frame and all subsequent frames
   - Use the restore button (↺) to bring back deleted rectangles
4. **Frame Navigation**: 
   - Diamond markers on the timeline show keyframes
   - Click diamonds to jump directly to frames with changes

#### Practical Example
```
Frame 1: Draw rectangle A at position (100, 100)
         → Rectangle A appears on all subsequent frames

Frame 5: Move rectangle A to position (200, 100)
         → Rectangle A moves to new position on frames 5-end
         → Frames 1-4 keep the original position (100, 100)
         → Frame 5 becomes a keyframe (diamond marker appears)

Frame 8: Draw rectangle B at position (150, 150)
         → Rectangle B appears on frames 8-end
         → Rectangle A remains at position (200, 100)
         → Frame 8 becomes a keyframe

Frame 12: Delete rectangle A
          → Rectangle A disappears from frames 12-end
          → Rectangle B continues on frames 12-end
          → Frame 12 becomes a keyframe
```

This system allows you to create complex animations and effects while maintaining full control over when and how rectangles appear, move, and disappear throughout your video.

### Property Panel

The property panel (right side) shows details for the currently selected rectangle:

- **Rectangle ID**: Unique identifier
- **X/Y Position**: Coordinates in pixels
- **Width/Height**: Dimensions in pixels
- **Effect Type**: Blur intensity level
- **Blur Intensity**: Current blur setting in pixels

### Timeline Navigation

- **Timeline Scrubber**: Drag the handle or click anywhere on the timeline to jump to specific frames
- **Diamond Keyframe Markers**: Click on diamond-shaped markers to jump to frames with rectangle changes
- **Thumbnail Navigation**: Click thumbnail images to jump to specific frames
- **Keyboard Navigation**: Use arrow keys (←/→) to navigate frame by frame
- **Navigation Buttons**:
  - "← Previous Keyframe" - Go to previous frame with rectangle changes
  - "Next Keyframe →" - Go to next frame with rectangle changes
- **Frame Counter**: Shows current frame and total frames with keyframe information

### Blur Settings

Choose blur intensity from the dropdown:
- **Light (5px)** - Subtle blur effect
- **Medium (10px)** - Moderate blur
- **Heavy (15px)** - Strong blur (default)
- **Very Heavy (20px)** - Very strong blur
- **Extreme (30px)** - Maximum blur effect

### Video Export

#### Preview Generation
1. **Click "Preview Blur (200 frames)"** to generate a short preview
2. Preview includes first 200 frames with applied effects
3. Useful for testing before full export

#### Full Export
1. **Video codec auto-selection**: The application automatically detects and selects the best available codec:
   - **NVIDIA NVENC H.264** - Highest priority (GPU acceleration, fastest)
   - **Other hardware encoders** - Intel QuickSync, AMD AMF (GPU acceleration)
   - **libx264** - Software encoding fallback (CPU, compatible with all systems)

2. **Manual codec selection**: You can override the auto-selection by choosing from the dropdown:
   - `NVIDIA NVENC H.264` - NVIDIA GPU acceleration (fastest, requires NVIDIA GPU)
   - `Intel QuickSync H.264` - Intel integrated GPU acceleration (requires Intel iGPU)
   - `AMD AMF H.264` - AMD GPU acceleration (requires AMD GPU)
   - `libx264 (Software CPU)` - Software encoding (compatible with all systems)

3. **Click "Export Video with Blur"** to start processing

3. **Monitor progress** in the export modal showing:
   - Frame processing progress
   - Encoding progress
   - Audio status

#### Export Process
The export process includes:
1. **Frame Analysis** - Processing rectangle data
2. **Blur Application** - Applying effects to marked regions
3. **Audio Copying** - Preserving original audio track
4. **Video Encoding** - Creating final output file

### Saving and Loading Rectangle Data

#### Auto-save
- Rectangle data is automatically saved as you work
- Changes are preserved between sessions

#### Manual Save
- **Click "Save Rectangle Data"** to export rectangle definitions
- Creates a JSON file in the `exports/` folder
- Includes all rectangle events and timing information

#### Loading Existing Data
- **Click "Load Rectangles"** to restore previously saved rectangle data
- Automatically loads when opening a video if data exists

### Keyboard Shortcuts

- **← / →** - Navigate between frames
- **Ctrl+N** - Go to next frame with changes
- **Ctrl+P** - Go to previous frame with changes
- **Ctrl+D** - Debug rectangle state (console output)

## File Structure

```
VideoEditor/
├── app.py                 # Main Flask application
├── README.md             # This file
├── templates/
│   └── index.html        # Web interface
├── static/
│   └── css/
│       └── style.css     # Application styles
├── data/                 # Video files (place your videos here)
├── frames/               # Extracted frame images
└── exports/              # Exported videos and rectangle data
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### FFmpeg Not Found
- **Error**: "FFmpeg not found. Please install FFmpeg."
- **Solution**: Install FFmpeg and ensure it's in your system PATH

#### Video Won't Load
- **Check**: Video file is in the `data/` folder
- **Check**: File format is supported (.mp4, .avi, .mov, .mkv)
- **Check**: Video file isn't corrupted

#### Export Fails
- **Check**: Sufficient disk space in `exports/` folder
- **Check**: Video codec compatibility
- **Try**: Using `libx264` instead of `h264_nvenc`

#### Performance Issues
- **Large videos**: Consider reducing video resolution before processing
- **Memory usage**: Close other applications during export
- **Hardware acceleration**: The application automatically selects the fastest available encoder
- **Manual codec override**: Choose a different codec if auto-selection doesn't work optimally

### Debug Mode

Enable debug output by:
1. Pressing **Ctrl+D** to log rectangle state
2. Opening browser Developer Tools (F12) for console logs
3. Checking Python console for server-side logs

## Technical Notes

- **Frame Rate**: Extracted at 30 FPS for smooth timeline navigation
- **Coordinate System**: Uses image pixel coordinates (top-left origin)
- **Rectangle Persistence**: Rectangles persist across frames until explicitly deleted
- **Memory Management**: Automatic cleanup during frame processing
- **Audio Preservation**: Original audio track is copied to output (when possible)
- **Hardware Encoder Detection**: Automatic scanning for NVIDIA NVENC, Intel QuickSync, and AMD AMF
- **Codec Priority**: NVIDIA NVENC H.264 > Other hardware > Software (libx264)

## Tips for Best Results

1. **Start Small**: Test with short video clips first
2. **Preview First**: Use preview feature before full export
3. **Save Frequently**: Use manual save for important rectangle configurations
4. **Check Audio**: Verify audio compatibility before long exports
5. **Monitor Resources**: Watch disk space and memory usage during export

## Support

For issues or questions:
1. Check the troubleshooting section above
2. Review console logs (browser F12 and Python terminal)
3. Ensure all prerequisites are properly installed
4. Test with different video files to isolate issues

Commit message:

feat: add OCR text detection and enhanced object tracking
- Integrate EasyOCR for automatic text recognition in rectangles
- Add fuzzy text matching to improve tracking accuracy
- Implement hybrid tracking combining template matching + OCR
- Update UI to show tracked text elements and method info
- Add virtual-env instructions to README
- Extend requirements with easyocr, fuzzywuzzy, opencv-python

README.md, after:

# Video Frame Editor with Blur Effects

A web-based video editor that allows you to apply blur effects to specific regions of video frames by drawing rectangles on a timeline interface.

![Video Editor Interface](Screenshot%202025-08-19%20091344.png)

## Features

- **Video Frame Extraction**: Automatically extract frames from video files
- **Interactive Rectangle Drawing**: Draw rectangles on video frames to mark blur regions
- **Timeline Navigation**: Navigate through video frames with thumbnail timeline
- **Rectangle Management**: Create, move, resize, and delete blur rectangles
- **Property Panel**: View detailed properties of selected rectangles
- **Blur Effect Options**: Multiple blur intensity levels (Light to Extreme)
- **Video Export**: Export processed video with blur effects applied
- **Hardware Acceleration**: Automatic detection and selection of GPU encoders (NVIDIA NVENC, Intel QuickSync, AMD AMF)
- **Preview Generation**: Generate preview clips to test effects
- **Auto-save**: Automatic saving of rectangle data
- **Keyboard Shortcuts**: Quick navigation and debugging tools

## Prerequisites

Before running the application, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Python 3.7+**
- **FFmpeg** (for video processing)
- **Required Python packages** (see Installation section)

## Installation

1. **Clone or download** this repository to your local machine

2. **Create a virtual environment** (recommended):
   ```bash
   python -m venv venv
   ```

3. **Activate the virtual environment**:
   - **Windows**: `venv\Scripts\activate`
   - **macOS/Linux**: `source venv/bin/activate`

4. **Install Python dependencies**:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

5. **Install FFmpeg**:
   - **Windows**: Download from [https://ffmpeg.org/download.html](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html)
   - **macOS**: `brew install ffmpeg`
   - **Linux**: `sudo apt install ffmpeg` (Ubuntu/Debian) or equivalent

6. **Create required directories** (will be created automatically on first run):
   - `data/` - for uploaded video files
   - `frames/` - for extracted frame images
   - `exports/` - for exported videos and saved rectangle data

## Usage

### Starting the Application

1. **Activate the virtual environment** (if not already active):
   - **Windows**: `venv\Scripts\activate`
   - **macOS/Linux**: `source venv/bin/activate`

2. **Run the Flask application**:
   ```bash
   python app.py
   ```

3. **Open your web browser** and navigate to:
   ```
   http://localhost:5000
   ```

4. **Hardware encoder detection**: On page load, the application will:
   - Check FFmpeg installation and version
   - Scan for available hardware encoders
   - Auto-select the best codec (NVIDIA NVENC H.264 preferred)
   - Display status message with detected hardware encoders

### Loading a Video

1. **Place your video file** in the `data/` folder
   - Supported formats: `.mp4`, `.avi`, `.mov`, `.mkv`

2. **Select the video** from the dropdown menu

3. **Click "Load Video"** to extract frames and create the timeline

### Drawing Blur Rectangles

1. **Click and drag** on the video frame to draw a rectangle
2. **The rectangle ID** will appear in the top-left corner
3. **Selected rectangles** show resize handles and highlight in the property panel

### Rectangle Management

#### Selecting Rectangles
- **Click** on any rectangle to select it
- **Selected rectangles** show:
  - Resize handles on corners and edges
  - Highlighted border
  - Properties displayed in the right panel

#### Moving Rectangles
- **Click and drag** the rectangle body to move it
- Position updates automatically in the property panel

#### Resizing Rectangles
- **Click and drag** the resize handles to change dimensions
- Size updates automatically in the property panel

#### Deleting Rectangles
- **Click the × button** on a rectangle to delete it
- **Shift+Click** on a rectangle for quick deletion
- Deleted rectangles can be restored using the ↺ button

### Rectangle Inheritance Between Frames

The video editor uses an intelligent inheritance system to manage rectangles across frames:

#### How Inheritance Works
1. **Rectangle Persistence**: When you draw a rectangle on a frame, it automatically appears on all subsequent frames
2. **Keyframe System**: Each frame where you make changes (add, move, resize, or delete rectangles) becomes a "keyframe"
3. **Automatic Propagation**: Changes made on a keyframe affect all frames until the next keyframe

#### Rectangle States and Visual Indicators
Rectangles are displayed with different colors and styles to indicate their state:

- **🔴 Red Border (Solid)**: New rectangles created on the current frame
- **🔵 Blue Border (Dashed)**: Inherited rectangles from previous keyframes (unchanged)
- **🟢 Green Border**: Rectangles that were inherited and then modified on this frame
- **🟣 Purple Border**: Rectangles that were moved from their inherited position
- **🟠 Orange Border**: Rectangles that were resized from their inherited dimensions
- **⚪ Gray Border (Dashed)**: Deleted rectangles (can be restored)

#### Working with Inheritance
1. **Creating Rectangles**: Draw on any frame - the rectangle appears on all subsequent frames
2. **Modifying Inherited Rectangles**: 
   - Move or resize an inherited rectangle to create a new keyframe
   - The change affects all subsequent frames until the next keyframe
3. **Deleting Rectangles**: 
   - Delete a rectangle to remove it from the current frame and all subsequent frames
   - Use the restore button (↺) to bring back deleted rectangles
4. **Frame Navigation**: 
   - Diamond markers on the timeline show keyframes
   - Click diamonds to jump directly to frames with changes

#### Practical Example
```
Frame 1: Draw rectangle A at position (100, 100)
         → Rectangle A appears on all subsequent frames

Frame 5: Move rectangle A to position (200, 100)
         → Rectangle A moves to new position on frames 5-end
         → Frames 1-4 keep the original position (100, 100)
         → Frame 5 becomes a keyframe (diamond marker appears)

Frame 8: Draw rectangle B at position (150, 150)
         → Rectangle B appears on frames 8-end
         → Rectangle A remains at position (200, 100)
         → Frame 8 becomes a keyframe

Frame 12: Delete rectangle A
          → Rectangle A disappears from frames 12-end
          → Rectangle B continues on frames 12-end
          → Frame 12 becomes a keyframe
```

This system allows you to create complex animations and effects while maintaining full control over when and how rectangles appear, move, and disappear throughout your video.

### Property Panel

The property panel (right side) shows details for the currently selected rectangle:

- **Rectangle ID**: Unique identifier
- **X/Y Position**: Coordinates in pixels
- **Width/Height**: Dimensions in pixels
- **Effect Type**: Blur intensity level
- **Blur Intensity**: Current blur setting in pixels

### Timeline Navigation

- **Timeline Scrubber**: Drag the handle or click anywhere on the timeline to jump to specific frames
- **Diamond Keyframe Markers**: Click on diamond-shaped markers to jump to frames with rectangle changes
- **Thumbnail Navigation**: Click thumbnail images to jump to specific frames
- **Keyboard Navigation**: Use arrow keys (←/→) to navigate frame by frame
- **Navigation Buttons**:
  - "← Previous Keyframe" - Go to previous frame with rectangle changes
  - "Next Keyframe →" - Go to next frame with rectangle changes
- **Frame Counter**: Shows current frame and total frames with keyframe information

### Blur Settings

Choose blur intensity from the dropdown:
- **Light (5px)** - Subtle blur effect
- **Medium (10px)** - Moderate blur
- **Heavy (15px)** - Strong blur (default)
- **Very Heavy (20px)** - Very strong blur
- **Extreme (30px)** - Maximum blur effect

### Video Export

#### Preview Generation
1. **Click "Preview Blur (200 frames)"** to generate a short preview
2. Preview includes first 200 frames with applied effects
3. Useful for testing before full export

#### Full Export
1. **Video codec auto-selection**: The application automatically detects and selects the best available codec:
   - **NVIDIA NVENC H.264** - Highest priority (GPU acceleration, fastest)
   - **Other hardware encoders** - Intel QuickSync, AMD AMF (GPU acceleration)
   - **libx264** - Software encoding fallback (CPU, compatible with all systems)

2. **Manual codec selection**: You can override the auto-selection by choosing from the dropdown:
   - `NVIDIA NVENC H.264` - NVIDIA GPU acceleration (fastest, requires NVIDIA GPU)
   - `Intel QuickSync H.264` - Intel integrated GPU acceleration (requires Intel iGPU)
   - `AMD AMF H.264` - AMD GPU acceleration (requires AMD GPU)
   - `libx264 (Software CPU)` - Software encoding (compatible with all systems)

3. **Click "Export Video with Blur"** to start processing

3. **Monitor progress** in the export modal showing:
   - Frame processing progress
   - Encoding progress
   - Audio status

#### Export Process
The export process includes:
1. **Frame Analysis** - Processing rectangle data
2. **Blur Application** - Applying effects to marked regions
3. **Audio Copying** - Preserving original audio track
4. **Video Encoding** - Creating final output file

### Saving and Loading Rectangle Data

#### Auto-save
- Rectangle data is automatically saved as you work
- Changes are preserved between sessions

#### Manual Save
- **Click "Save Rectangle Data"** to export rectangle definitions
- Creates a JSON file in the `exports/` folder
- Includes all rectangle events and timing information

#### Loading Existing Data
- **Click "Load Rectangles"** to restore previously saved rectangle data
- Automatically loads when opening a video if data exists

### Keyboard Shortcuts

- **← / →** - Navigate between frames
- **Ctrl+N** - Go to next frame with changes
- **Ctrl+P** - Go to previous frame with changes
- **Ctrl+D** - Debug rectangle state (console output)

## File Structure

```
VideoEditor/
├── app.py                 # Main Flask application
├── README.md             # This file
├── templates/
│   └── index.html        # Web interface
├── static/
│   └── css/
│       └── style.css     # Application styles
├── data/                 # Video files (place your videos here)
├── frames/               # Extracted frame images
└── exports/              # Exported videos and rectangle data
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### FFmpeg Not Found
- **Error**: "FFmpeg not found. Please install FFmpeg."
- **Solution**: Install FFmpeg and ensure it's in your system PATH

#### Video Won't Load
- **Check**: Video file is in the `data/` folder
- **Check**: File format is supported (.mp4, .avi, .mov, .mkv)
- **Check**: Video file isn't corrupted

#### Export Fails
- **Check**: Sufficient disk space in `exports/` folder
- **Check**: Video codec compatibility
- **Try**: Using `libx264` instead of `h264_nvenc`

#### Performance Issues
- **Large videos**: Consider reducing video resolution before processing
- **Memory usage**: Close other applications during export
- **Hardware acceleration**: The application automatically selects the fastest available encoder
- **Manual codec override**: Choose a different codec if auto-selection doesn't work optimally

### Debug Mode

Enable debug output by:
1. Pressing **Ctrl+D** to log rectangle state
2. Opening browser Developer Tools (F12) for console logs
3. Checking Python console for server-side logs

## Technical Notes

- **Frame Rate**: Extracted at 30 FPS for smooth timeline navigation
- **Coordinate System**: Uses image pixel coordinates (top-left origin)
- **Rectangle Persistence**: Rectangles persist across frames until explicitly deleted
- **Memory Management**: Automatic cleanup during frame processing
- **Audio Preservation**: Original audio track is copied to output (when possible)
- **Hardware Encoder Detection**: Automatic scanning for NVIDIA NVENC, Intel QuickSync, and AMD AMF
- **Codec Priority**: NVIDIA NVENC H.264 > Other hardware > Software (libx264)

## Tips for Best Results

1. **Start Small**: Test with short video clips first
2. **Preview First**: Use preview feature before full export
3. **Save Frequently**: Use manual save for important rectangle configurations
4. **Check Audio**: Verify audio compatibility before long exports
5. **Monitor Resources**: Watch disk space and memory usage during export

## Support

For issues or questions:
1. Check the troubleshooting section above
2. Review console logs (browser F12 and Python terminal)
3. Ensure all prerequisites are properly installed
4. Test with different video files to isolate issues
